End Goal:
- Robust multigenerational traditions and culture. 
Facilitates: Positive university perception and satisfaction, high quality graduates. 
Example: Queen’s Engineering Culture
Future quote: “I cannot wait to participate in the engineering culture my grandfather always talks about”
note: Alumni don’t donate to the educational institution, they donate to support the experience they had while at school.

Non-functional Requirements:
- Event predictability and repetition. 
Facilitates: event attendance, preparation, and anticipation.
Example: First Year Primer
Future quote: “The hardcopy engineering primer was super useful as a student from out of town. Where else would I have learned about all the engineering events?"

- Events are for engineers, not about engineering. 
Facilitates: Taking a break from doing actual engineering, practicing soft skills, and contextualizes engineering concepts. 
Example: Engineer’s Winter Formal. 
Future Quote: “My mom always talks about how much fun the 4th Year Engineer’s Winter Formal is. She met my dad there!”
 
- Events are incentivized. 
Facilitates: Buy in, volunteering, and industry participation.
Example: Monthly breakfast seminar with attendance badges or real academic credits.
Future Quote:  “I’m so glad I went to all the monthly breakfast seminars. Its where I made new friends when mine were on coop, and I actually ended up working for the presenter after graduation.” 

Functional Requirements:
- Have to get to first years before they get to school.
Facilitates: Sets expectations, describes events, and prepares them for school
Solution: First Year Primer

- Have to welcome students onto campus and into culture.
Facilitates: shared group experiences, exposure to campus resources, and connects the years
Solution: Student run orientation (this is the most important stage and must be inclusive, safe, structured, valuable, paid for by the students, and essentially socially mandatory). 

- Have to incorporate the “Engineering” mindset and principles at all events. Ethics, Professionalism, Stewardship, Leadership. 
Facilitates: A sense of overarching purpose, an identity culture, and improves our graduate professionalism.
Solution: All events are framed in this context. "We are engineers. And that means something.”

- Have to have supporters that span the “institutional memory” limit of student volunteers.
Facilitates: Consistency, efficacy, and clarity.
Solution: Create structures in the student culture that remember (orientation is organized by 3rd years, who interview and hire 2nd years, who both work together to orient the 1st years), and or involve permanent staff in a guidance and support role.

- Have to have faculty buy in. 
Facilitates: University resource allocation, community acceptance, and student perception of authenticity and value.
Solution: Have an Orientation and Culture regulatory body that operates semi-autnomously within sanctioned bounds defined by the Engineering department.

- Have to have formal training requirements for volunteers.
Facilitates: Safety, regulation compliance, disciplinary action, student experience quality.
Solution: Require that if students want to volunteer for the awesome positions available, they will need to take resume enhancing training (sensitivity, security, first aid) related to the event.

- Have to understand the value the students get out of the event.
Facilitates: Designing and improving the events.
Solution: Describe the intended value, plan event, execute, measure effectiveness, and iterate.

- Have to have misbehaviour have a cost.
Facilitates: Culture adherence, good behaviour at events, impactful discipline.
Solution: Disciplinary action committee with an enforcable register of offenders, pre-determined disciplinary actions and outcomes, and mandatory one-card display when purchasing non-transferable tickets to all events.

This is a likely incomplete description of what I experienced at Queen’s, and describes my mindset on how we might be successful here at UVic.
